Product tour (#3065)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/administration/back_office/product_tour.md

## Scenario types

[[= product_name =]] supports two types of scenarios, each designed for different use cases:

TODO: screenshot for each type

### General scenarios

General tours display information in centered modals without targeting specific UI elements.
These tours provide an overview of features or concepts without requiring interaction with particular interface elements.

General tours are ideal for:

- Introducing new users to the platform
- Explaining high-level concepts or feature overviews
- Welcoming users with customizable background images and branding

### Targeted scenarios

Targeted scenarios highlight specific UI elements on the page and guide users through interactive workflows.
Each step targets a particular element using CSS selectors, drawing attention to buttons, navigation elements, or other interface components.

Targeted scenarios are ideal for:

- Demonstrating specific features or workflows
- Guiding users through multi-step processes
- Teaching users how to interact with particular UI elements

The steps building the scenario support three interaction modes:

- Standard - Users navigate between steps using "Previous" and "Next" buttons

> - Clickable - Users must click the highlighted element to proceed to the next step

Reviewer: Just an idea: we can mention, that if someone would want to go to prev step in clickable or draggable mode it is possible only by restarting tour (for example via user setting after finishing tour)

Author: Added in https://github.com/ibexa/documentation-developer/pull/3065/commits/f12bdcb4772ed1a7934c6a99bc8231423ea26102

---
description: Product tours provide interactive guided walkthroughs to help users learn Ibexa DXP features.
edition: lts-update
month_change: true
---

# Product tour

> Product tour is an in-app onboarding tool that helps users discover and learn [[= product_name =]] features through interactive, step-by-step guided walkthroughs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Product tour is an in-app onboarding tool that helps users discover [[= product_name =]] features through interactive, step-by-step guided walkthroughs.
```

See above

> Product tour is an in-app onboarding tool that helps users discover and learn [[= product_name =]] features through interactive, step-by-step guided walkthroughs.

Reviewer 3: I would remind that this is for BO users:

```suggestion
Product tour is an in-app onboarding tool that helps back office contributors discover [[= product_name =]] features through interactive, step-by-step guided walkthroughs.
```

Unlike static documentation, product tours provide real-time, contextual guidance directly within the application interface.

With product tours, you can create customized onboarding journeys tailored to specific client implementations, user roles, or business processes.
This accelerates user adoption, reduces training time, and helps users confidently navigate the platform.

> Product tour functionality is available from version 4.6.28 as part of the Integrated help package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Product tour functionality is available from versions 4.6.29 and 5.0.7 as part of the Integrated help package.
```

To use product tours, you must first [install the Integrated help LTS Update](integrated_help.md#install-package).

TODO: Arcade video here, showing a quick demo of the feature

## Key concepts

Product tour consists of three main elements:

- **Scenario** - A complete onboarding scenario containing multiple steps that guide users through a specific feature or workflow
- **Step** - An individual instruction or explanation within a scenario, containing blocks, displayed as an overlay or tooltip

> - **Block** - A content element within a step, such as text, images, videos, or links that provide information to the user

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Scenario** - a complete onboarding scenario containing multiple steps that guide users through a specific feature or workflow
- **Step** - an individual instruction or explanation within a scenario, containing blocks, displayed as an overlay or tooltip
- **Block** - a content element within a step, such as text, images, videos, or links that provide information to the user
```

## Scenario types

[[= product_name =]] supports two types of scenarios, each designed for different use cases:

TODO: screenshot for each type

### General scenarios

General tours display information in centered modals without targeting specific UI elements.

> These tours provide an overview of features or concepts without requiring interaction with particular interface elements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These tours provide an overview of features or concepts and do not require interaction with particular interface elements.
```
To avoid repeating similar sentence structure in immediate vicinity.

General tours are ideal for:

- Introducing new users to the platform
- Explaining high-level concepts or feature overviews
- Welcoming users with customizable background images and branding

### Targeted scenarios

Targeted scenarios highlight specific UI elements on the page and guide users through interactive workflows.

> Each step targets a particular element using CSS selectors, drawing attention to buttons, navigation elements, or other interface components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each step targets a particular element by using a CSS selector, and can draw attention to buttons, navigation elements, or other interface components.
```

Targeted scenarios are ideal for:

- Demonstrating specific features or workflows
- Guiding users through multi-step processes
- Teaching users how to interact with particular UI elements

The steps building the scenario support three interaction modes:

> - **Standard** - Users navigate between steps using "Previous" and "Next" buttons

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Standard** - Users navigate between steps by clicking **Previous** and **Next** buttons
```

- **Clickable** - Users must click the highlighted element to proceed to the next step
- **Draggable** - Users must drag and drop an element to continue the scenario

TODO: Screenshot here

## Scenario lifecycle

Depending on scenario configuration, they automatically appear to users when they first log in or visit a specific page.
Each scenario appears only once for each user.

Users can complete a tour with one of the following actions:

- by finishing all steps

> - by skipping it with the **Exit tour** button

Reviewer: This button differs depending on the tour type. Target tour has "Exit tour" button but general tour exit button has "Skip" label.

- by skipping it with the **Escape** key

For **Standard** scenario steps, users can move freely between the previous and next steps.
For **Clickable** and **Draggable** steps, users can't go back to the previous step without restarting the scenario and starting from the beginning.

At any time, users can manually restart completed tours from their [user settings]([[= user_doc =]]/getting_started/get_started/#user-settings).

> To start building your custom onboarding scenarios, see [configure product tour](configure_product_tour.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To start building your custom onboarding scenarios, see [Configure product tour](configure_product_tour.md).
```
